---
title: 自定义注解及其使用
author: KawYang
top: false
cover: false
coverImg: 
toc: true
mathjax: true
categories: Java
tags:
  - Java
abbrlink: b022c5f1
date:  2021-05-20 22:36:19
img:
---

## 入门

### 1. 定义

```java
import java.lang.annotation.ElementType;
import java.lang.annotation.Retention;
import java.lang.annotation.RetentionPolicy;
import java.lang.annotation.Target;

@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
public @interface MyAnnotation {
    String value() default "defaultValue";
}
```

> `@Target`:  指定注解的使用范围; ElementType 枚举 TYPE, FIELD,METHOD...
>
> `@Retention`:  指示带注释类型的注释将保留多长时间。默认: @Retention 上的 @Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME); RetentionPolicy 枚举 CLASS\RUNTIME\SOURCE

### 2. 使用

```java
import com.yang.annotation.MyAnnotation;

@MyAnnotation("value")
public class Entity() {
}
```

###  3. 获取注解内容
> 通过反射获取注解内变量的值

```java
import com.yang.annotation.MyAnnotation;

import javax.swing.text.html.parser.Entity;

public class Test {
    void content() {
        System.out.println(Entity.class.getAnnotation(MyAnnotation.class).value());
    }
}
```
#### 获取注解的方法

> 对应 ElementType的 TYPE\FIELD\METHOD

1. TYPE (Class 类下)
> getAnnotation(Class<A> annotationClass) - 获取指定类型的注解 , 无返回 null
> getAnnotations() - 返回所有注解
> getAnnotationsByType(Class<A> annotationClass)
> Returns annotations that are associated with this element.
2. Field 
> getAnnotatedType()
> Returns an AnnotatedType object that represents the use of a type to specify the declared type of the field represented by this Field.
> getAnnotation(Class<T> annotationClass)
> Returns this element's annotation for the specified type if such an annotation is present, else null.
> getAnnotationsByType(Class<T> annotationClass)
> Returns annotations that are associated with this element.
3. METHOD
> 	```vim
> 	getAnnotatedReturnType()	
> 	```
> 	Returns an AnnotatedType object that represents the use of a type to specify the return type of the method/constructor represented by this Executable.
> 	getAnnotation(Class<T> annotationClass)
> 	Returns this element's annotation for the specified type if such an annotation is present, else null.
> 		getDeclaredAnnotations() - 返回元素注解列表
> 	Returns annotations that are directly present on this element.


### 4. 输出内容
```shell
value
```
